[Pages] update bindings in your Astro application (#10881)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/deploy-an-astro-site.md

A [binding](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV](/workers/learning/how-kv-works/), [Durable Object](/durable-objects/), [R2](/r2/), and [D1](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-d1/).

In Astro you can add server-side code via [endpoints](https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/endpoints/), in such endpoints you can then use the `context.local` from [Astro Middleware](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/middleware/) to access Cloudflare's environment and consecutively any bindings set for your application.

For TypeScript you can define type on `env.d.ts`

```typescript
---
filename: src/env.d.ts

> highlight: [2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8]

Reviewer: I think that the highlighting here is totally wrong, isn't it?

![Screenshot at 2023-10-01 13-04-57](https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/assets/61631103/f2814865-82bf-42db-a7ea-2ae37ef8e5e8)

Practically almost everything should get highlighted.... I am wondering, maybe we shouldn't highlight anything at all? :thinking:

A [binding](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV](/workers/learning/how-kv-works/), [Durable Object](/durable-objects/), [R2](/r2/), and [D1](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-d1/).

In Astro you can use bindings in Astro components and API routes by using the `context.local` from [Astro Middleware](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/middleware/) to access the Cloudflare runtime which amongst other fields contains the Cloudflare's environment and consecutively any bindings set for your application.

> Let's see an example with TypeScript:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's see an example of how to access a KV namespace with TypeScript.
```

First, we need to define Cloudflare runtime and KV type by updating the `env.d.ts`:

```typescript
---
filename: src/env.d.ts
---
/// <reference types="astro/client" />

type KVNamespace = import("@cloudflare/workers-types").KVNamespace;
type ENV = {
  // replace `MY_KV` with your KV namespace
  MY_KV: KVNamespace;
};

// Depending on your adapter mode
// use `AdvancedRuntime<ENV>` for advance runtime mode
// use `DirectoryRuntime<ENV>` for directory runtime mode
type Runtime = import("@astrojs/cloudflare").AdvancedRuntime<ENV>;
declare namespace App {
  interface Locals extends Runtime {}
}
```

> You can access your KV from an API endpoint in the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then access your KV from an API endpoint in the following way:
```

A [binding](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV](/workers/learning/how-kv-works/), [Durable Object](/durable-objects/), [R2](/r2/), and [D1](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-d1/).

> In Astro you can use bindings in Astro components and API routes by using the `context.local` from [Astro Middleware](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/middleware/) to access the Cloudflare runtime which amongst other fields contains the Cloudflare's environment and consecutively any bindings set for your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use bindings in Astro components and API routes by using `context.local` from [Astro Middleware](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/middleware/) to access the Cloudflare runtime which amongst other fields contains the Cloudflare's environment and consecutively any bindings set for your application.
```

> Let's see an example of how to access a KV namespace with TypeScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the following example of how to access a KV namespace with TypeScript.
```

> First, we need to define Cloudflare runtime and KV type by updating the `env.d.ts`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, you need to define Cloudflare runtime and KV type by updating the `env.d.ts`:
```

```typescript
---
filename: src/env.d.ts
---
/// <reference types="astro/client" />

type KVNamespace = import("@cloudflare/workers-types").KVNamespace;
type ENV = {
  // replace `MY_KV` with your KV namespace
  MY_KV: KVNamespace;
};

// Depending on your adapter mode
// use `AdvancedRuntime<ENV>` for advance runtime mode
// use `DirectoryRuntime<ENV>` for directory runtime mode
type Runtime = import("@astrojs/cloudflare").AdvancedRuntime<ENV>;
declare namespace App {
  interface Locals extends Runtime {}
}
```

You can then access your KV from an API endpoint in the following way:

```typescript
---
filename: src/pages/my-endpoint.ts
highlight: [3, 4, 5]
---
import type { APIContext } from "astro";

export async function get({locals}: APIContext) => {
  // the type KVNamespace comes from the @cloudflare/workers-types package
  const { MY_KV } = locals.runtime.env;

  return {
    // ...
  };
};
```

> Besides endpoints, You can also use bindings directly from your Astro components:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Besides endpoints, you can also use bindings directly from your Astro components:
```

```typescript
---
filename: src/pages/index.astro
highlight: [2, 3]
---
---
const myKV = Astro.locals.runtime.env.MY_KV;
const value = await myKV.get("key");
---
<div>{value}</div>
```

> To learn more about the Astro Cloudflare runtime see [Access to the Cloudflare runtime](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/#access-to-the-cloudflare-runtime).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more about the Astro Cloudflare runtime, refer to the Access to the Cloudflare runtime](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/#access-to-the-cloudflare-runtime) in the Astro documentation.
```

A [binding](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV](/workers/learning/how-kv-works/), [Durable Object](/durable-objects/), [R2](/r2/), and [D1](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-d1/).

In Astro you can add server-side code via [endpoints](https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/endpoints/), in such endpoints you can then use the `context.local` from [Astro Middleware](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/middleware/) to access Cloudflare's environment and consecutively any bindings set for your application.

For TypeScript you can define type on `env.d.ts`

```typescript
---
filename: src/env.d.ts
highlight: [2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8]
---
/// <reference types="astro/client" />

> import type { AdvancedRuntime } from "@astrojs/cloudflare";
> import type { KVNamespace } from "@cloudflare/workers-types";

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
type AdvancedRuntime = import('@astrojs/cloudflare').AdvancedRuntime;
type KVNamespace = import('@cloudflare/workers-types"').KVNamespace;
```

These imports would not work. Therefore inline imports should be used. Astro docs are pending the update.

reason:
> .d.ts is implicitly global, but that changes when it becomes a module
> adding an import statement makes it a module
> because you did an import in your env.d.ts which makes it non-ambient
> an inline import doesn't make it a module

Author: Hi @alexanderniebuhr ,

I am not sure about the global type of import in typescript, I was following this guide https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/#access-to-the-cloudflare-runtime.

The inline import way doesn't work on my IDE (TypeScript version 5.2.2), Maybe you could check again and find the correct way.

Reviewer 3: As I said earlier the Astro docs are pending an update. _(see https://github.com/withastro/astro/pull/8654/files#diff-a74615b421da488d5e2bcf3e14c80732c192a374f51901a2064b3e2caef9d529L202-R243)_

I just tested the `src/env.d.ts` in a new project, and it looks like the following version works for both types.

Reviewer 3: **UPDATE**: the comment about `global` vs `namespace` still applies, however I think I just discovered a bug, in the generic. will investigate today and come back to you.

Reviewer 3: @ntsd it's not a bug, just an ordering issue. The following version, should work if you use `declare namespace App {}`

```ts
/// <reference types="astro/client" />
type KVNamespace = import('@cloudflare/workers-types/experimental').KVNamespace;
type ENV = {
  MY_KV: KVNamespace,
}

type Runtime = import('@astrojs/cloudflare').AdvancedRuntime<ENV>;
declare namespace App {
  interface Locals extends Runtime {
    someLocals: string,
  }  
}
```

Author: Thank you @alexanderniebuhr, It actually works now.

I edited the PR, ready to update.

// `MY_KV` is your KV namespace
type ENV = {
  MY_KV: KVNamespace;
};

declare global {
  declare namespace App {
    // can also extends `DirectoryRuntime` for directory run time mode
    interface Locals extends AdvancedRuntime<ENV> {}
  }
}
```

The following code block shows an example of accessing a KV namespace in Astro.

```typescript
---
filename: src/pages/my-endpoint.ts
highlight: [3, 4, 5]
---
import type { APIContext } from "astro";

> export async function get({local}: APIContext) => {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
export async function get({locals}: APIContext) => {
```

Shouldn't it be `locals` instead of `local`?

  // the type KVNamespace comes from the @cloudflare/workers-types package

>   const { MY_KV } = local.runtime.env;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  const { MY_KV } = locals.runtime.env;
```

Shouldn't it be `locals` instead of `local`?
